Hey! So, welcome to using BroadcastMessage! In this video, we are going to
tell you how BroadcastMessage sends
down the Hierarchy. We'll be creating
a natural parent radio system object,
creating a new child of player called
InnerVoice, so that we can reduce ourselves to one AudioSource per game object, and also to
play more with the concept of sending
messages. Now, you'll probably be thinking
that the way that we are handling the
audio sources, at the moment, is a bit of
a hack. Well, I think it is, if we look at
a couple of our scripts here. Do you remember
that recently, we said that we would find
a particular AudioSource based on its
priority? You see here in the player, because we have two audio sources on the player.
Well, that's the sort of answer you'll
find on a forum on the Internet and
that's fine, but it's actually indicative
of an architectural issue. And the
architectural issue is that we have two
different audio sources on this game
object. So, a slightly different way of
showing you things. Now, I'm going to be
using Autodesk SketchBook, which is a
fantastic tool to compare the SendMessage,
which you haven't seen yet, which
is the most local of these commands.
So, we're going to look at SendMessage (), we're also going to look at SendMessage
Upwards () again. We've already used SendMessageUpwards, we're just going to revise
what that does, and I'll draw you a little picture, to explain how I see it visually.
And then, I'm going to show you BroadcastMessage (), which can also be called
SendMessage downwards, although that's not the method name in Unity, it kind of does
what you'd expect, SendMessage downwards. OK, so how do these things work? Let me get myself
a black pen out. By the way, tell me if you
like this style of presentation, in the
discussions. I'd love to know, so send a
message. We're going to consider a parent
GameObject, with a few child objects here. And I'm also for SendMessage () going to
consider the Hierarchy of this game
object. So, here is the Inspector and the Hierarchy.
So, on the right, you have the Inspector,
so it may have a transform and a
renderer and my script A and my script
B, whatever. OK, all of these different
components. And let's consider this GameObject here, and this is the Inspector
of that particular GameObject. Now, let's
imagine that we use the SendMessage ()
method in here, in one of the scripts on
this GameObject. What does it do?
Well, SendMessage () will call the script that you specify, like on call
helicopter or whatever you call it, whatever event you set up, on all of the
other components of this object only, but
it is completely local to this GameObject.
It's OK, the particular one we're on, it only goes across components of the
existing GameObject, so it's very local. And of course, with any of these message
broadcasting firstly, don't use them
every single frame, unless you really
need to, and secondly, always use the most local scope you can. That's a general
programming truth, if you like. So, that's
what SendMessage() does. Now, what does
SendMessageUpwards() do? Well, we've
already used it, so you've probably got a
feeling for what it does. I'm just going to
give you more of a diagrammatic feeling
for what it does here. Let's say we have
three levels of nested GameObjects
this time, like so. What SendMessageUpwards
does for you is, if it's called on this GameObject, what does get the
message called is the parent and then the
parent's parent. So, all the ancestors. OK,
just as the manual says. And then,
Broadcast Message, what does that do?
It's probably the least local of all of these, because it goes down to all of the child
objects. So, let's imagine we have two
levels again, nested like that, and we
call from here, the parent object. It will
call all of the children and all of the
children's children. So, it needs to be used
sparingly, because it's a very busy
little message broadcast. Probably why
they call it broadcast, because it's
pretty pretty busy, sends to a lot of
different things.
OK, so that's the comparison between a
very local SendMessage(), a lot less local
SendMessageUpwards(), and the very global BroadcastMessage(). So, I'm going to just save that,
so I can put it in the slides for you
later, and get ourselves a new one of
these fancy slidy thingies. Tell me whether you like these, as I said, in the
discussions. I'm really interested, I like being at a sketch and
talk. So, how are we going to organize
then, to only have one AudioSource
per GameObject? Well, we're going to have to change our ecosystem a little bit, so imagine
that this now is a radio system, which
encompasses both the player and the
helicopter, so I'm going to put the player
in here. Now, the player already has a
couple of sub-components. We'll look at
those in a moment, but let's put the
helicopter in. Now, is this physical? I said I wanted to keep this game as kind of
physical as possible. It is, a radio system is distributed between the player
and the helicopter. They both have two
different sides of the radio system, you know;
they have a transceiver each, and
then, this represents kind of the air or the
free space in between them.
Alright, so how would this look in the
Hierarchy? Well, it's relatively simple,
you would have the helicopter... Sorry, the
radio system number 1, at the top of
the Hierarchy like that, and then, you
would have the player, which I'm going to leave some
space, because we're going to do some other things as well and the helicopter. So, the player
would be at number 2, in this instance, the
helicopter would be number 3, so we
have 2 and 3. Now, we already have a
clear area under the player remember?
We're also going to add a new thing under the player called inner voice. So, let's think
about where the audio components are. We want the helicopter to only be giving off
noise as an AudioSource. These blue
things are audio sources. OK, just call it audio, for now.
It just wants to give off noise, we don't want it
spitting out radio commands. The radio
system will be responsible as a 2D,
for making the transmission sounds as a
2D AudioSource. This will be a 3D AudioSource.
Now, the player has a couple of
different audio sources on him. He has
things like footsteps. Now, that's a
3D AudioSource, controlled by the First
Person Character Controller, so that
you and other players can hear your own
footsteps, but what we need to do,
underneath the player now, is create one
more sub-object called Inner Voice. OK, and
that's going to be a child object of the
player like this, and that's going to be in
terms of numbering here, it's going to be
like number 4. Probably use black to be consistent.
It'll be a child object of the player, called Inner Voice, and it will have its own AudioSource
on it, and it will just... I'm just going to call it voice for now, and that will be a 2D,
because only we need to hear it.
OK, so now we've got four different audio
sources, as we already do, but now they're split
over four different game objects. A
helicopter makes wacky wacky sounds
and things, the player has footsteps,
and then, off a new sub-object Inner Voice,
the voice, and then the radio system. Then, what we can do is we can start saying: Well,
when the player wants to send a message
to the helicopter, what it can do is, it can send a
message up to the radio system, using SendMessageUpwards, which can then broadcast
back down the Hierarchy into the
helicopter radio call.
So, this type of architecture allows us to have one audio source per game object, and to
frankly exercise or play with the broadcast system more, which is the point.
OK, so I'm going to call this ecosystem and pop it in your slides for you later. Let's go over
to Unity now and sort out the audio sources, as the end of this lecture. So, here we are
in Unity, let's look at the player, firstly.
The player has two audio sources on them,
this one here and then, there's one below. Now, which one is being used by the First
Person Controller? ...It's the top one, because I saw "What Happened" come here, so I'm going to
remove that "What Happened", or even just copy it. I'll copy it I think. Copy the
component, then remove it, and then I'm
going to make this Inner Voice sub-object.
create new child, Inner Voice. I like to put spaces in my GameObject names, I don't know why.
And let's have a script, because we're bound to need that. And then, let's have an
AudioSource, so we can paste the
component and then, it's going to keep
the same properties as before, it's just a 2D AudioSource at the moment. I'm not going to configure
these yet, I just want to set them up. So, the player has one for the footsteps and an Inner
Voice with another, which we will later
program for the Inner Voice. Now, the
helicopter also has two audio sources
doesn't it. Do we want it to have two audio sources?
Well, we want it to have a helicopter sound that it plays on awake, but
this top AudioSource, it must be the one
we're using for the radio and we don't
want that. So, let's remove that, so
there's only one 3D AudioSource on the
helicopter, and let's create a new empty
GameObject, called radio system. I'm going to reset the
transform, it already was, and then, child
both the player and the helicopter to it.
Why? So, that we can broadcast messages up and down as we said, and the radio system
itself also needs a script, to control it, and it's also going to need an AudioSource. I'm just going to
move this script down, because I prefer
to have scripts at the
bottom. OK cool! So, this AudioSource is going to be for the radio and it's going to be
a 2D AudioSource. So, now we have one
AudioSource there, one on the player for
the footsteps, another on the player has
an Inner Voice, that only the player can hear,
and then, a helicopter making wacky wacky noises. OK fantastic! So, now we have set
it all up. I'm just going to tidy my scripts away, and also, address this error
message I'm getting. What is the error
message? It's saying that the day cycle start
rotation is never used. I think that's what
it said? And also, I've got a Null Reference
Exception. So, let's tidy these up. We will have Null Reference Exceptions,
because we have removed audio sources. So, we'll do that in the next lecture. I just
want to sort out the previous warning I
had, which was for the day-night cycle.
So, on the day cycle, I have this start
rotation, we never used any of that, so
I'm just going to get rid of that lot in the day cycle. OK and then, in the next
lecture, we will look at actually
refactoring all our code, for making this audio
work, sending messages up and down the
Hierarchy, putting the appropriate delays
in, recording a few more sounds, etc. It'll be fun! OK, see you soon!